Overview

Start
Jul 15, 2019
Close
Oct 3, 2019
Merger
Description

Imagine standing at the check-out counter at the grocery store with a long line behind you and the cashier not-so-quietly announces that your card has been declined. In this moment, you probably aren’t thinking about the data science that determined your fate.

Embarrassed, and certain you have the funds to cover everything needed for an epic nacho party for 50 of your closest friends, you try your card again. Same result. As you step aside and allow the cashier to tend to the next customer, you receive a text message from your bank. “Press 1 if you really tried to spend $500 on cheddar cheese.”

While perhaps cumbersome (and often embarrassing) in the moment, this fraud prevention system is actually saving consumers millions of dollars per year. Researchers from the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society (IEEE-CIS) want to improve this figure, while also improving the customer experience. With higher accuracy fraud detection, you can get on with your chips without the hassle.

IEEE-CIS works across a variety of AI and machine learning areas, including deep neural networks, fuzzy systems, evolutionary computation, and swarm intelligence. Today they’re partnering with the world’s leading payment service company, Vesta Corporation, seeking the best solutions for fraud prevention industry, and now you are invited to join the challenge.

In this competition, you’ll benchmark machine learning models on a challenging large-scale dataset. The data comes from Vesta's real-world e-commerce transactions and contains a wide range of features from device type to product features. You also have the opportunity to create new features to improve your results.

If successful, you’ll improve the efficacy of fraudulent transaction alerts for millions of people around the world, helping hundreds of thousands of businesses reduce their fraud loss and increase their revenue. And of course, you will save party people just like you the hassle of false positives.

Acknowledgements:

Vesta Corporation provided the dataset for this competition. Vesta Corporation is the forerunner in guaranteed e-commerce payment solutions. Founded in 1995, Vesta pioneered the process of fully guaranteed card-not-present (CNP) payment transactions for the telecommunications industry. Since then, Vesta has firmly expanded data science and machine learning capabilities across the globe and solidified its position as the leader in guaranteed ecommerce payments. Today, Vesta guarantees more than $18B in transactions annually.

Header Photo by Tim Evans on Unsplash
Evaluation

Submissions are evaluated on area under the ROC curve between the predicted probability and the observed target.
Submission File

For each TransactionID in the test set, you must predict a probability for the isFraud variable. The file should contain a header and have the following format:

TransactionID,isFraud
3663549,0.5
3663550,0.5
3663551,0.5
etc.

Prizes

    1st Prize: $10,000
    2nd Prize: $7,000
    3rd Prize: $3,000

Winners will be required to submit a write-up for the IEEE CIS Conference, to which they are invited and highly encouraged to attend and present their work.
Timeline

UPDATE: The below timeline has been updated according to this post. Please see that post and the competition rules for more details.

    September 24, 2019 - Entry deadline. You must accept the competition rules before this date in order to compete.

    September 24, 2019 - Team Merger deadline. This is the last day participants may join or merge teams.

    September 24, 2019 - External Data Disclosure deadline. This is the last day to disclose any used external data to the competition forums

    October 3, 2019 - Final submission deadline. After this date, we will not be taking any more submissions. Remember to select your two best submissions for final scoring.

Citation

Addison Howard, Bernadette Bouchon-Meunier, IEEE CIS, inversion, John Lei, Lynn@Vesta, Marcus2010, and Prof. Hussein Abbass. IEEE-CIS Fraud Detection. https://kaggle.com/competitions/ieee-fraud-detection, 2019. Kaggle.



Dataset Description

In this competition you are predicting the probability that an online transaction is fraudulent, as denoted by the binary target isFraud.

The data is broken into two files identity and transaction, which are joined by TransactionID. Not all transactions have corresponding identity information.
Categorical Features - Transaction

    ProductCD
    card1 - card6
    addr1, addr2
    P_emaildomain
    R_emaildomain
    M1 - M9

Categorical Features - Identity

    DeviceType
    DeviceInfo
    id_12 - id_38

The TransactionDT feature is a timedelta from a given reference datetime (not an actual timestamp).

You can read more about the data from this post by the competition host.
Files

    train_{transaction, identity}.csv - the training set
    test_{transaction, identity}.csv - the test set (you must predict the isFraud value for these observations)
    sample_submission.csv - a sample submission file in the correct format


